We have almost 1,700 people a day dying
from cancer in this country. That is
about 70 people an hour. If you have
type 2 diabetes and you're obese, you're
at super high risk for cancer. Only
about 50% of the women that have that
gene will actually go on to develop some
sort of a tumor. Your very health care
providers
are almost clueless. We specifically
kill tumor cells by taking away the only
fuels that they use to survive. It's an
elegant, a beautiful, non-toxic way to
get rid of cancer.
Hey SB fam, welcome back to the channel.
It's me Bella, the Steak and Butter Gal.
I hope you all are having an amazing day
and as always, I'd love to know how you
are doing. Drop an update down below in
the comments. Today, I will be inviting
on Professor Thomas Seyfried to speak on
his latest findings and full protocol on
how to prevent, treat, and fight cancer.
Professor Thomas Seyfried will be a
guest speaker in the SBG community. If
you would like to submit your questions
for Professor Thomas Seyfried, make sure
you join the next challenge by going to
the URL shown on the screen
sbgmeetup.com
or check out the links down below in the
description box. Welcome, Professor
Seyfried. Do introduce yourself.
>> Hi, hi. I'm Tom Seyfried here, a
professor at Boston College and it's uh
nice to be here and meet you folks
today. What are the biggest lies we've
been told about cancer by doctors and
the medical community at large? Most of
the physicians that talk to people
uh tell them what they what they think
they know. They don't realize that it's
a metabolic disease, it's not a genetic
disease.
So, um and I don't think they know that.
Uh they haven't been trained. The field
majority of people in the oncology field
uh are are not aware of that. And it
becomes clear
uh when they discuss this uh with their
cancer patients. So, if a person
doesn't really know something,
that would be lack of knowledge uh not
not related to uh actually lying like
these politicians do. Okay, so we know
that.
Um
Uh the great tragedy in my mind is the
um
the the therapies that are offered to
cancer patients are are based on the
conventional knowledge that cancer is a
genetic disease. Um when you look at
radiation and poisonous chemicals, uh we
all know everyone, even the oncologists,
know that that's not good. And there
there by the grace of God, you might
survive these very, very toxic
treatments. Those toxic treatments were
supposed to be have been eliminated with
the promise of the genomic uh investment
in cancer. We've spent um a hundred
billion dollars on the cancer genome
project. The promise of the genome uh
investment has not
been coming.
And it won't come because cancer is not
a genetic disease.
So, um so we we we have to continue to
rely
on very toxic treatments for cancer
because the promise of the new precision
medicines and personalized therapies
have have not have not been realized. We
have almost 1,700
people a day dying from cancer in this
country.
That is about 70 people an hour.
So, in this discussion that we have, 70
people will be dead from cancer, okay?
And that just came out. We have cancer
statistics just came out the other day,
2024 cancer statistics.
And what they said is we've reduced
cancer deaths by 30% since 1991.
And that's because the anti-smoking
campaign was started in 1991. So, had we
all continued to smoke,
we would have 30% more cancer deaths
than we have right now. So, this doesn't
this doesn't speak to new therapies for
people that already have cancer. It's
it's the prevention. So, if you stop
smoking, you'll prevent a lot of
different kinds of cancers and people
look to that as if we're making major
advances in managing cancer. And the
fact is we're not.
It's an abysmal uh
disaster. It's probably it's probably
goes down as one of the greatest
tragedies in the history of medicine.
And it's not and nobody's lying to
anybody. They just put all their eggs in
a singular basket and that basket has
happens to have a huge hole in it. And
and and we're not we're not getting the
benefits of all the billions of dollars
that we have invested in this disorder.
It's a And that means so the theory
under which the disease is viewed and
managed is incorrect. It's a metabolic
disorder and once you realize that,
we'll be able to drop the death rates by
50% in 5 years, but you have to overturn
a monstrously powerful system and
paradigm and that's not going to happen
anytime soon. Does that mean it comes
from uh the parents? Is No, no, no.
Yeah, you have you have two kinds. You
have somatic mutations and you have
germline mutations. So, germline
mutations are those that are passed down
within families and you hear about the
BRCA1 and you hear Li-Fraumeni and you
hear a variety of other of these
so-called These are inherited risk
factors.
Um they are secondary risk factors. The
primary risk factor is damage to the
ability of the cell to generate energy
with through oxygen. So, when you see
these mutations in families like the
BRCA1 that you hear an awful lot about
because of Angelina Jolie and others
having breasts and ovaries and all this
kind of stuff removed um as a as a
prophylactic because they carry the
gene. But but the issue is that only
about 50% of the women that have that
gene will actually go on to develop uh
some sort of a tumor. 50% of them will
not. Uh and the answer is we're not
really clear about that, but we know
that every one of the women that did
develop a breast tumor or an ovarian
tumor or whatever that carried the gene,
we always find that the cells are
fermenting. They're using uh energy
without oxygen. So, we know that's the
common link for all these different
cancers uh whether it occurs
sporadically
uh or through the germline. So, uh when
we hear about cancer as a genetic
disease,
uh that that comes from the theory that
that somatic mutations cause
dysregulated cell growth. So, you have
to say to yourself, what is this what is
cancer? It's cell division out of
control, dysregulated cell growth. What
causes that? And the answer to the
according to the National Cancer
Institute and most it's it's uh gene
mutations in in a variety of different
uh
targeted genes, but that but we and
others have shown that those mutations
are not the cause, they're the effect of
damage uh energy metabolism. So, the
mutations are effects, they're not the
cause. So, if you're constantly chasing
effects, you're you're never outcome is
never going to be optimal. And when you
have oh, we're targeting this gene and
that gene, all of those are downstream
effects, they're not the cause. So, this
is why the field is locked into this uh
perpetual uh
problem where you you hear all this but
cancer is is is is out of control.
Uh when you have 70 people uh an hour
dying from a disease, this is an out of
control situation. And it's not and it's
going to stay out of control as long as
the field continues to real that put
energy into all this uh these gene
mutations and and then you have the
immunotherapies
which you hear about, Keytruda, Opdivo.
That's all based on the somatic mutation
theory of cancer. And if the theory
underlying the disorder is incorrect,
those drugs are never going to be
optimal in managing and reducing the
death rate. That's what I want to know.
Can you reduce from from 1,700 people a
day to 800 people a day? That would be a
huge advance. If you did that in 5
years, you'd know you're on the right
track. So, uh and and uh right now, the
system it does not acknowledge that.
They they have no clue.
Not all of them, of course, but most
oncologists, when you tell them it's a
metabolic disorder and you can manage it
using diet lifestyle issues, they they
they don't eat they they say there's no
evidence to support that. And the
evidence, they don't read the evidence.
Well, it's one thing
uh and it's it's another thing. If you
don't read the the research material and
understand it, then you remain uh
ignorant of the information. And there's
no way and you're not trained in medical
school to know this. You're trained that
cancer is a genetic disease. You go to
the National Cancer Institute website,
everything's cancer is a genetic
disease. And you feel like, well,
there's nothing I can do about it. I've
inherited these genes and it's out of my
control. That's wrong. Everything is you
have a lot of control over this
disorder. It's just that you've been
made to to give
an opinion that's not supported by the
by the new science.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press-pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ketofor
cancer, the new community by our
research analyst John Rocker Meyer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results.
These sections cover all parts of the
press-pulse protocol that you should
implement starting with the general
scientific concepts by Dr. Thomas
Seyfried. We will show you how to start
the ketogenic diet including which foods
to choose and which to avoid.
Additionally, we prepared a list of
doctors specialized in metabolic therapy
as well as details about glutamine
inhibition and hyperbaric oxygen
protocols.
So, take a look around at
school.com/ketofor
cancer.
Do you think money, industry, and
economic markets influence the way we
perceive cancer treatment and cancer as
a whole? I think there's a lot to be
said for that. Um, we have a
uh, we all know about um, physical
toxicity. The reason The reason why
people
uh, fear cancer is because they don't
want to have to lose their hair and
vomit
and all these We call those um, physical
and mental toxicities. But we also have
a new form of toxicity called financial
toxicity.
So, um, you can't believe how
uh, folks in this country that aren't
well off
uh, are more or less living uh, paycheck
to paycheck and then they get hit with a
cancer bill for $30,000.
It It It causes uh, families to uh,
disintegrate. People commit suicide. Um,
it's a tragedy of monumental
proportions. And um,
it's called financial toxicity and it's
uh, just as deadly as some of the
physical toxicities that were associated
with. So, why should drugs that that
don't work for so many people uh, you
should charge people only after the
treatment works.
You should never pay up front for any of
this stuff. Uh, if it works, then you
should pay. You should have some sort of
a payment system. The longer you stay
alive, the more you pay. You shouldn't
pay $30,000 and then in a year you're
dead. It doesn't make any sense. So, um,
we need to change the way we we view the
treat How successful are the treatments?
You go to the physician. He charges you
a
a surgical procedure. Okay, some of this
is is is expected, but a lot to be
charged for drugs that cause you to have
your hair fall out, your your gut
destroyed and all these other horrible
things. Why are you paying all this
money for something that's causing you
harm?
Um, uh, yes and there's a huge industry
associated uh,
the cancer industry is known to be one
of the wealthiest. I mean, they make
billions of dollars on these drugs. But
if they if you're Okay, I I don't think
people would mind it too much if the
drugs actually worked. Um, you know, uh,
Why we got As I said, we've got we got
70 people dying in this hour that we're
speaking and many of them have taken
some of these drugs.
So, um, and they fail uh, one after
another. And and not only that, if you
do happen to survive and believe me,
there are millions of cancer survivors
who have survived the so-called standard
of care.
But a good number of those folks now
suffer from digestive, hormonal, mental,
all kinds of physical ailments that
actually reduce their survival on the
planet.
Uh, and you die from other things. Oh,
you you were your cancer, but now you
you you die from heart disease and you
and you die from
bone density issues. You die You die
from all these other things as a
secondary effect of being treated with
very, very toxic uh, approaches. So, um,
and that's what people don't want. They
would like to be treated for for their
disorder with something that's not going
to be harmful. It actually makes them
uh,
their outcome better and this is what we
published this press pulse where we
gradually degrade the tumor slowly um,
as we enhance the health and vitality of
the body. We don't There should be no
hair loss. Anytime you see a a cancer
patient that's bald Why why that person
is bald? You're trying to kill the tumor
cells, not the hair follicles.
I I I mean, let's be honest. I mean, you
get off-target effects that you
shouldn't have off-target. We
specifically kill tumor cells by taking
away the only fuels that they use to
survive, which is glucose and glutamine.
And and the people get healthy. As
you're degrading the tumor, you're also
getting rid of a lot of other uh,
collateral problems like diabetes, high
blood pressure, hypertension. A lot of
these things go away along with the
cancer. Um, the problem The problem
right now is what I've just shared uh,
with you is not known or understood by
the majority of health care providers in
this country. That's the problem.
There's a lack of information
dissemination of what I said. The
science is clear. The problem is the
word is not out there and people then
run off to the oncologists and when you
ask them about metabolic therapy,
metabolic oncology, they don't never
heard of it.
So, how are you How your very health
care providers
are almost clueless
as to the biology of the disorder
they're they're treating. If they don't
know that it's a metabolic disorder,
that's a tragedy. And the consequences
are are 1,700 people a day dying from
this disease.
>> So, you mentioned diet and lifestyle.
Can you elaborate on what specifically
regarding diet and lifestyle could be
detrimental?
>> There's a whole slew of things. Minimal
exercise. The obesity epidemic has now
replaced smoking as the one of the
highest risk factors.
Um,
we have forever chemicals in the
environment. Um, we have very little ex-
Well, this comes together and some folks
could get type 2 diabetes. Some folks
could get cancer. Some folks could get
dementia. Uh, some folks could get
macular degeneration. There's a whole
series of of chronic diseases associated
uh, with our diet and lifestyle. And um,
and if you
you just measure your blood work. That's
you can see that right off the bat. If
you have type 2 diabetes and you're
obese, you're at super high risk for
cancer.
Um, this should not be a mystery to
anybody. So, the uh, in fact, as I said,
we've managed a lot of the with the
smoking reduction, but now we're
creeping up again with the obesity
epidemic. So, uh, clearly smoking uh, if
you remember years ago, uh, smoking was
common. 50% of the people in the society
were smokers. They We'd go to movie
houses and the there would be smoke in
the movie houses and restaurants. But
now we're we're um, you know,
cardiovascular disease a little bit. But
but now we're replacing smoking with our
also a
diet and lifestyle issue. So, so it's
just who we are as a as a population as
a species uh, that put us at risk. So, a
lot of the viewers who are watching
right now, they are on a carnivore diet
lifestyle. So, they're eating animal
protein, animal fats, zero carbs. What
are your thoughts on a zero carb way of
eating? Well, we developed the glucose
ketone index calculator
which allows anybody whatever kind of a
diet you want. Mediterranean diet,
pescetarian diet, paleolithic diet, all
of these different kinds of diets.
Carnivore diets. Um, you look at your
glucose ketone index and that tells you
uh, what level of of nutritional ketosis
that you're in. So, we we get people
uh, into nutritional ketosis and then we
attack uh, the tumor cells using uh,
off-label, off-target uh, drugs. That's
another thing. The therapies that we
use, they're
These drugs are cheap. You can't You
can't make any money on them. You can't
make money on any of this stuff that I'm
talking about. So, um, and that's the
great tragedy. And that's why it can
never happen because nobody can figure
out how to make a buck on it. But uh, we
know it works and it works really,
really well. Um, but you know, there
there is a requirement here and it's
called personal discipline. Uh, you have
to have some level of discipline to get
your glucose ketone index which which
could take
uh, on a very low carbohydrate diet and
you can use any kind of a low carb diet
you'd like. It might take 14 days to get
into a a GKI. And then we jump for a few
days into water only fasting and then we
hit them with the drugs the drugs that
actually hammer these tumor cells out of
existence. Once you put the body in this
new metabolic state, these tumor cells
become extremely vulnerable to very
small doses of various whole array of
different kinds of drugs that go after
the glucose and glutamine. It's an
elegant, a beautiful, non-toxic way to
get rid of cancer. But it does require
the patient to participate in the
outcome. You're not just going to sit
there and have some body part of your
body irradiated or you know, chug down
some sort of a toxic poison. Th- This is
is
a patient
participatory there are some people who
who choose to go standard of care. They
don't want to take charge and if Listen,
there'll always be a an avenue for those
guys. There's Listen,
if you want to be irradiated and this
surgical mutilation, removing breasts It
was already shown years ago that there's
no redeeming uh,
survival advantage from a lumpectomy
versus a a mastectomy. And yet the
evidence is published Oh, yet the poor
women are being mutilated. Um, you know,
there's so many ways to go about uh,
managing this disease and in ways at
which are different from from what's
going on in most of the clinics today.
Could you break down for us what a GKI
measures? Glucose is measured in
milligrams per deciliter.
Um, and
uh, ketones are measured in millimolar.
So, you have to convert the milligram
per deciliter into millimolar.
And what you simply do is divide that
number by 18, approximately 18.03 or
something.
Um, then you convert your glucose So,
the same units. You're dividing glucose
in millimolar by ketones or
beta-hydroxybutyrate
in millimolar. So, then you can get a a
ratio uh, in in millimolar units. So,
what Dorian said, the simple process of
dividing your blood glucose by 18 is too
complicated for 90% of the people in
this country, which is a real
embarrassment. But he said, we have to
make it easy. So, just get your blood
sugar and keep push the button boom on
the meter and it gives you the ratio
right there. You don't have to get a
paper and pen or use your brain to do
the ratio calculation. Okay. So, it's
just people know, look at my GKI." So,
they're all excited about it. You know,
and it's just a very simple ratio.
And
you know, we're not 100% sure that that
ratio will always be an accurate
indicator of your present status because
there can be some really strange
metabolic things happening in a person's
body.
So, there's always other measures that
should be looked at along with the GKI.
It's not to be looked at alone as a
simple entity. You have to look at the
blood work. You have to look at all the
metabolites that are also in association
with that. And you start to see the
overall physiology move closer and
closer to what we what we would be
considered ideal health.
At the same time, the person has a tumor
and yet the body is in ideal health.
And the the tumor now is going to be
absolutely you have a chance to really
rip into those cells and kill them with
various dosages and timing of these
drugs. This is the future. This is the
management of cancer if we want to stay
alive from from this disorder. What are
your top recommendations for food and
lifestyle habits to lower cancer risk?
>> You know, it's hard as I said, get it
get your GKI down.
Any food any food that brings you into a
low GKI.
Okay? So, so you just take the meter
the KetoMojo or whatever and measure
your GKI. And it's it'll tell you right
away what you can and cannot eat. It'll
tell you right away the best or the
worst food to eat cuz you'll know your
body is telling you. And that could
differ from one person to the next.
Okay. So, they're always saying, "Oh,
what food what food?" I don't know.
Eat a big donut and see what it does to
your GKI. If it makes it go through the
roof, don't eat the donut. You know,
it's not that it's not that mysterious.
You know,
if you want to you know, gnaw on a on a
on a big steak and see how that affects
your GKI. You know, some people may
respond better to a vegetarian diet than
a carnivore diet. I don't know. It's
everybody's an an individual.
But the GKI doesn't lie. Besides
tracking GKI numbers, do you also
recommend tracking fasting insulin
numbers and insulin in general? Well, I
did all those studies in the mice.
People have done it in humans as well.
When you don't eat food and
carbohydrates, insulin naturally goes
down.
Carbohydrates are trigger for having
insulin insulin-like growth factor and
all these other things. So, when you
don't eat for like a week or so, you
have you become very insulin sensitive.
And that's um
a Virta Health
with Jeff Volek and and some of the
other individuals there.
Cure type 2 diabetes just doing
water-only fasting and and and
calorie-restricted ketogenic or
low-carbohydrate diets. You know, you
can do it with all these diets. But you
know, it's not easy. I I I don't want to
make it look like this is a panacea. Oh,
yeah, just go out and don't eat carbs.
Your brain is addicted to carbs. You
know, some people will try to not eat
for 3 or 4 days. You start shaking. I
mean, it's like you know,
as I said, it's it's not easy. That's
why we try to
gradually move people from
a carbohydrate diet to a
low-carbohydrate diet and see if it your
GKI will definitely go down. Whether it
hits the the zone of 2.0 or below,
I I can't be sure cuz I've had a lot of
people say, "Oh, you know, I've been
doing zero carb for 3 weeks and I still
have a GKI of 10." Well, I said, "Don't
eat any food. Just drink water
and see what happens." And the next
thing you know, all of a sudden it's
down there. Now, there's always somebody
Now, the other thing with cancer, it's
very hard sometimes to get into these
low GKI zones because the treatments
that you take like radiation and chemo
and some of this puts a a huge stress
the body knows it's under tremendous
stress and it releases corticosteroids
which elevate blood sugar. So, you're
battling you're trying to keep state
massively healthy at the same time
you're you're being abused. So,
people need to know that. And that's why
I have many cancer people email me and
says, "You know, I'm just struggling to
get in there." But they're also at the
same time in in very toxic treatments.
And that can oftentimes make it more
difficult to get into low GKI values
as opposed to someone
who say, "Oh, I I was just diagnosed
with cancer. I never knew I had it. I
felt pretty good other than they they
found something and now they want me to
That's the In my mind, that's the time
you can you go on the
metabolic approach, get your GKI really
really low and then see what the
non-invasive
scans
start to show.
And if you start to see the scans and
the intensity going down and being So,
the cancer cells are now being
compromised by the whole change in the
physiology of the body.
And then again, it's if you can shrink
it down so it's really small, yes, a
surgical debulking can can potentially
cure you. Or even a shot of radiation on
a small area without disturbing too much
could possibly possibly cure you.
There's a lot of strategies that we can
get into the to the zone where we can
bring the bring the beast down to a
manageable
level and then you can possibly use an
immunotherapy to kill off the few
surviving cancer cells that were
resistant to the metabolic approach. So,
there's so many new strategies for
managing cancer
to keep people a lot healthier and with
a higher quality of life.
This will come. This is the What I just
told you is the future. It's just that
it's not known by a lot of people.
That's all. So, you clearly stated that
sugar feeds the cancer cell. Could you
explain more about the difference
between glucose and glutamine and how
these two affect cancer growth? The
cancer cannot live without glucose and
glutamine. There's only two fuels. We've
we've interrogated the cancer cell.
Here's what we do. We take these tumor
cells and we put them in saline which is
a salt solution. No fuel, nothing.
And then we see how long it takes them
to completely die. Without fuel,
remember without energy nothing can
survive. Energy is everything. The whole
cancer issue is energy energy energy.
So, how do you know what a cancer cell
needs to survive? You grow it in salt
and then it die it dies. It
dies. And then we add stuff back one at
a time one at a time. And we find the
things that all of a sudden you add
glucose back, boom, this thing starts
growing again even in the salt.
Okay. So, then we add each amino acid
back. And we found out that the amino
acid glutamine together with the sugar
glucose is the most robust driver of
dysregulated cell growth. There are
other amino acids they can play a minor
kind of a role, but nothing like
glutamine. Now, targeting glutamine you
can't do it very effectively with diet.
Vigorous exercise can lower glutamine
levels. But you need drugs. And in our
mind, those drugs are parasite
medications. Okay? Because the parasites
and the sugar the parasite and the
cancer cell use common metabolic
pathways if you can believe it. Yeah.
So, so that's why some of these So, you
bring the patient down in this new super
healthy state and you go after the
glutamine and the glucose
simultaneously. Unbelievable. You
probably can't appreciate how powerful
what I just said to you is until you
actually see it yourself.
And um
the problem is most people don't see it
and and
they they they think, "Oh, you know,
what food can I eat for glutamine?" No,
no, no. You got to use the you can get
it down, but you can't really get it to
below this like threshold. Once you get
it below that threshold, don't forget
these tumor cells have to have a lot of
fermentable fuel. They're not energy
efficient like our normal cells. Our
normal cells can live on the most
minuscule amount of nutrient in the
environment and still be healthy.
The tumor cell has to have a buttload of
glucose and glutamine. Once you go below
a certain threshold of of levels, these
tumor cells they they up and die because
they ran out of they ran out of energy.
So, so that's the whole strategy.
Simultaneously cutting off the two fuels
that drive the dysregulated growth while
at the same time transitioning the body
to ketones which we evolved to burn in
times of fasting.
Okay? Tumor cells can't use fatty acids
and ketone bodies. Yes. So, so you you
starve them. They're they're
marginalized. They're weak. They have
all these genetic mutations. Sure, they
have a lot of mutations. That prevents
them from adaptability.
So, unless you understand evolutionary
biology like we do, you you can you
might have difficulty understanding how
we put all the parts of the puzzle
together to get the outcome. So, that's
another thing. You know, we study
evolutionary biology because that holds
the key to this whole cancer problem.
So, if you really want to know how to do
all this, you got to know how to connect
all of the dots understanding the origin
of species on the planet and
understanding how these cancer cells
have deviated from from the way we
understand biology and biochemistry to
work. And once you understand that,
these cancer cells are sitting ducks
for all kinds of attack that's not
harmful to the body.
But what I shared with you right now is
just simply not known or understood and
even sometimes resisted by the field.
So, I'm always saying, "Where
Prove me wrong. Show Show me a cancer
cell that can live without glucose and
glutamine." I've been throwing that out
to the field for a long Nobody shows me.
They because they don't exist.
Right. When you say foods with glucose,
does it matter what form that glucose is
in? So, I think about fruits versus a
donut. Is there a difference at the end
of the day when trying to prevent and
fight cancer?
>> Whatever you're eating must be
nutritionally balanced. Um and what I
mean by that, you cannot be
deprived of
macro and micronutrients in whatever
you're eating
to keep your normal cells healthy.
Um but whatever that is, again, it comes
back to your measure your glucose ketone
index and then you'll know. Now, I I
fruits are interesting because when I
worked in the epilepsy field for years
and years uh we would manage children
with uh on metabolic therapy, ketogenic
diets
for months and then they would take a
bite of some sweet thing like an orange
uh or an apple or or or or orange juice
and they within a very short period of
time would explode into an epileptic uh
seizure. So, it was quite clear how fast
we could remove the suppressive effects
and have the outcome. With cancer, we we
don't we don't see that.
But when we were working with epilepsy,
we realized that grapefruits
uh had an opportunity to maintain good
vitamin C
but not jack sugar up too high.
So, yes, again, you you
it's the kind of fruit and the amount of
fruit and all of these things that play
an important role. And again, you you
can't see a few tumor extra tumor cells
growing
like you can see a full-blown epileptic
seizure. So, uh
so we were able to see how powerful
managing constant management of of blood
sugars in children with epilepsy, how
important that was for maintaining
uh resistance to seizures. The mechanism
by which that happens
has not been as clearly defined as the
mechanism by which uh killing cancer
cells works. It's amazing thing. Well,
many of my colleagues in the epilepsy
field are still working very hard to try
to figure out how these diets, ketogenic
diets and things
uh you know, and modified Atkins diets
and all these can manage epileptic
seizures. But for cancer, we know very
clearly how it works. Professor Thomas
Seyfried will be a guest speaker in the
SBG community. If you would like to
submit your questions for Professor
Thomas Seyfried, make sure you join the
next challenge by going to the URL shown
on the screen sbgmeetup.com
or check out the links down below in the
description box. Now, you mentioned
about vitamin C. What's the correlation
there with cancer on the vitamin C
especially?
>> IV vitamin C leads to oxidative stress
in cancer cells. So, um so I again, it's
you're causing oxidative stress. But but
the issue of course is if you have
fermentable fuels
in the cancer microenvironment, which is
glucose and glutamine, they have a very
powerful antioxidant capability. Okay,
so glutathione and
superoxide dismutase and all of these,
these are powerful antioxidant systems
in the cancer cell uh controlled by the
ferment fermentation metabolism. So, as
you degrade the the fermentation, which
is the removal of the fermentable fuels,
the tumor cell will naturally become
more vulnerable to oxidative stress,
whether it's through a hyperbaric
oxygen, IV vitamin C or or other other
kinds of approaches that would that
would increase oxidative stress in the
cancer cell but not in the normal. If
the normal cell is burning ketones, it's
very resistant to oxidative stress
because it's a very different energy
metabolism for burning ketones in normal
cells and the cancer cell can't can't
access that kind of metabolism. They're
locked into this ancient ancient pathway
of energy.
I think about that when in a normal
water fast, your your healthy cells,
your normal cells seem to be actually
getting stronger. Is that accurate? Yes,
and that's because they're burning
ketone bodies. So, we we we evolve but
the but the mechanism for that was
worked out by my late good colleague and
friend Richard Veech at the NIH.
It's a very complicated biochemistry. Um
and it has to do with delta G prime ATP
hydrolysis and it's it's um they're
delivering more uh
protons for the proton
I don't want to I mean, I can go down
into the depths
>> Better energy, right? Can we say ATP
better energy?
>> It's actually it's actually 26 to 25 25
to 26
percent more energy efficient when you
burn ketones than when you burn glucose.
And fewer oxygen free radicals are
produced as well. So, you actually it's
an anti-aging kind of a thing. So, um
but the normal cells can do that.
Uh the tumor cells cannot do that. So,
they're compromised, they're restricted,
they're marginalized. They because of
all the mutations that they have all
these mutations. Nobody's arguing with
the mutations. They're downstream
effects that block the the flexibility
of those cells to they're locked into
ferment they can't they're not no longer
flexible. So, once you move the whole
body into these new metabolic zones,
these tumor cells get hammered. What
tests and exams should people take to
reliably track cancer risk?
>> Well, I think, you know
you know, again, your GKI. If you it's
hard Well, let me put it this way. It's
very very hard. If all cancers or the
majority of cancers are due to damage to
the organelle, the mitochondria, that
make energy through oxidative
phosphorylation
in order to get cancer, that organelle
must be damaged. So, if you can keep
that organelle healthy
very
it's very unlikely you're going to get
cancer. And this was seen in our
aboriginal folks,
um Inuit,
African tribes, rainforest people,
aboriginals from Australia. If these
guys live according to their natural
ways, cancer is extremely rare, okay?
So, they're not eating fast foods on
every corner.
They're not sitting in front of their
computer screens.
Whatever they're doing, they're getting
a sufficient amount of exercise and
they're eating foods that enhance the
health and vitality of their normal
cells and they don't get cancer. And
or cancer is extremely rare, okay? Not
um
uh
1,700 people a day dying like we have in
in this country. And in China, it's like
8,000 uh a day because they have a
bigger population. So, in fact, China,
the the cancer has now replaced heart
disease, cardiovascular disease as the
number one killer. So, once people know
what how you get cancer,
how it starts, how it progresses and
what you need to do to prevent it, then
you can drop this whole thing. But then
again, you have to
modify diet lifestyle. The question also
that I have that I don't seem to
understand. So, all of us kind of build
a certain amount of cancer cells in our
body supposedly. And from what I heard
is that our body can actually set these
cells to have a kill switch.
Now, is that legitimate?
>> The kill switch, if they can't if they
can't get energy from fermentation,
they're going to die.
So, um That's what I thought. So, I
mean, that's the bottom line. Without
energy, they're going to die. They can't
respire. They they they can respire
a little bit. Uh which I mean, they can
get small amounts of energy
from oxygen but it's not sufficient
by itself to keep them alive. They have
to have the fermentation machine going
at the same time, which is driven by
glucose and glutamine. Okay? So, that's
another thing. When you take away the
fermentation the two fuels that drive
this ancient non non-oxygen energy
metabolism and then you give them oxygen
um you create tremendous oxidative
stress in the tumor cell because their
buffering against oxidative stress is
the fermentation meta So, if you lower
the fermentation metabolism and put them
in like hyperbaric oxygen or something
like this, you greatly increase and
explode the tumor cells but they got to
you got to get rid of their their
protective fermentation metabolism
first.
That's why we put use hyperbaric oxygen
only when the patient is in a low
glucose ketone index. Now, the tumor
cells are going to be massively
vulnerable to
um to hyperbaric oxygen, possibly
vitamin C, possibly a lot of these, IV
vitamin C, anything that will increase
oxidative stress because don't forget
that's why radiation kills tumor cells,
oxidative stress.
So, but radiation does a lot of
collateral damage. So, so you want to do
the same thing radiation does except
making microenvironment super healthy
around the tumor cell. Get rid of the
acidity. That's another thing. These
tumors are very acidic because the waste
products of fermentation acidify the
microenvironment. So again, if we take
away the fermentation fuels, the acidity
goes away. They become vulnerable to
oxidative stress. You're breathing,
right? I'm breathing. All the Right. All
the folks Well, this is called oxidative
respiration. We're using oxygen to get
energy in the mitochondria of the cell.
Okay, the cancer cells don't use oxygen
to get energy. They they do fermentate
totally different. It's it's energy
without oxygen. You have to realize that
all the organisms on our planet
2. 4 2.5 billion years ago were all
fermenters.
There was no oxygen in the atmosphere.
But we have fossils of all these cells
that were alive. They're all fermenters.
So, they're using ancient pathways of
energy metabolism not requiring oxygen
and that's called fermentation. Cancer
cells are locked into fermentation for
energy. They don't use oxygen or very
little oxygen. So, we know how to kill
them because they're they have fallen
back as the ancestral cells that existed
on the planet all these billions of
years ago.
So, that's why what I'm saying
evolution, you got to know how organisms
developed and evolved on this planet and
then you know what the cancer cell is
doing differently and then you say, how
is it living? What is it doing? It's
doing the same thing cells did 2.5
billion years ago. And what happened in
that time when the fermentable fuels in
the environment were used up, these
cells would die. And we're seeing the
same thing happen to the cancer cell.
When you take away their fermentable
fuels, the cells will die. So, it's how
effective you are, how effective the
strategy is in depriving the tumor cells
of their fermentable fuels, which are
predominantly glucose and glutamine. If
you're new to the carnivore diet or a
low carb lifestyle and you're struggling
with symptoms like headache, muscle
cramping, lower energy in the gym, this
could be due to an electrolyte
imbalance. It could be helpful to use a
high-quality electrolyte supplement
temporarily. This is the one that I
always recommend by Element.
Specifically, this blue teal-colored box
labeled raw unflavored. You can just
take it on the go wherever you go, rip
one open, pour it in your beverage, mix
it up, drink it down, and you're good to
go. You all can get a free sample pack
with any purchase and it does include
the raw unflavored one. As long as you
go to the URL shown on the screen,
drinklmnt.com/sbgail.
I've also linked them down below. If
somebody was to do a seasonal fast water
fast for prevention, I know I hear you
talking about this GKI, you know, that
that's going to be an important part of
this and this can take 14 days, it could
take a couple days. Do you have any
thoughts about doing something like as a
preventative? Of course, prevention. But
from my understanding, we have an
obesity epidemic.
How many people really care about
prevention?
Yeah. Let's be honest.
Right? I mean, if people were really
interested in not getting cancer, uh we
would not have an obesity epidemic,
especially among little kids. Um we're
putting those little kids at terrible
risk for all kinds of uh of
chronic diseases. It's a tragedy and you
can see it happening right before your
eyes.
Um all of those uh
kids are already putting themselves at
tremendous at tremendous risk for not
only cancer but diabetes uh type 2
diabetes, cancer, cardiovasculars,
dementia. All of all of this stuff is
related to the to the same problem. And
I I don't think the word is out that uh
that this is
a tragedy. And now more I'm seeing and
now this paper's published that cancer
is now striking younger and younger
people all the time. In their late 20s,
30s, and early 40s. And that's because
of the diet and the lifestyle that we're
in.
It's not a genetic predisposition. It's
the diet and the lifestyle that we are
currently in. And once you know that,
then you are in a position to do
something about it.
Now, whether you want to do anything
about it, that's up to the individual.
But at least you know that if you stay
on that path, your probability of
long-term survival on the planet is
reduced.
>> Where do you recommend viewers go to
find reliable research on cancer and
nutrition? You know, that's a big
hodgepodge.
Uh you can read all these different
papers about eat this, don't eat that,
don't eat that. Um it just did look at
your glucose ketone index. You know, I I
I built that my colleagues and my my my
student Josh Minebauer and Berna
Mukherjee and myself, we built that for
the the cancer, especially glioblastoma
patient. But now, on the web, I'm seeing
more and more health gurus and all these
weightlifters and bodybuilders and just
super healthy guys all using the GKI
to see how how healthy they can become.
So, I didn't make it for that, but
that's prevention. You keep low GKI,
it's going to be hard to get cancer. Uh
especially if what you're eating is
nutritionally balanced, micro and micro
macro and micro nutrition. So, if that
happens to be a vegan guy, a carnivore
guy, a pescetarian guy, a paleolithic
guy, I don't care. Whatever whatever
they're doing to get that ratio down is
probably going to be healthier than not
getting it down. Do you recommend
fasting to fight cancer and if so, what
forms of fasting do you recommend? If
you can do it, it's not easy. Okay?
Right. Right. Okay, it'll wipe that
smile right off your face. I can tell
you that right now.
Nobody's smiling after a 1 week of water
only fasting.
We have some of our students sometimes
used to be every day big smiles on their
face. They come in, they love life, they
love everything. And then when they try
to fast for several days, they're
sitting with a moping looking face. I
mean, it's not a friendly looking face.
Um
they're they're So, nobody's smiling and
saying, "Oh, how great it is. I haven't
eaten anything for 25 days. Look at how
great I feel." No, no. Um it's it's a it
should be brought in.
Uh you can dovetail it to whatever
religion you happen to be, you know,
give it up for the greater glory of God
or something like this.
Whatever can be dovetailed to help you
do that. But but I think it's easier if
you go on a low carb diet for several
weeks, uh get a low GKI, and then and
then jump into a water only fast. Oh,
yeah. It makes it the jump is not so
dramatic than if you go cold turkey in
this whole thing. Yep. So, um but then
again, those are the those are the
strategies that folks can use if they're
really seriously interested in doing
this for the betterment of their health.
Um we don't use any any drugs uh except
the ones that are going to kill cancer
cells. So, and the drugs that we use, I
said are low are we use the low doses
and that's what the dosage timing and
scheduling part of the press-pulse
concept. We we're not there yet in
perfecting uh the strategies for what
dosage timing and scheduling. You can
use some of these drugs that will target
glutamine. It's it's easier to target uh
glucose with diet and lifestyle, but
glutamine is a little bit more
difficult. Unless you're doing a pretty
good vigorous exercise, you can lower
glutamine. But I don't know if it's
lowered to the point
where the tumor cell would be
eliminated. That's why we use a small a
little bit of a drug to push those over
the threshold and kill them. Uh and you
don't want to ever uh use any kind of a
drug that has a remote chance of harming
a person. That tells you you're not
doing it right. Okay? So, all these
terrible toxic effects you see the poor
cancer patients, this is not right. This
is wrong. This speaks to a profound lack
of knowledge on the biology of the
disease they're treating cuz you don't
you can kill cancer without having to do
any of this stuff. It's just that it's
not known to the majority people or the
oncology field or the National
Institutes of Health. So, uh
it's just it's just a a wall of And then
when you talk to those guys
about it, oh, I don't know, hasn't been
tested. Oh, no clinical trials. And
there's always a non-scientific argument
for why it won't work. It's not like,
"Oh, did you see the science?" No, but
it won't work. And it's like, "Give me a
break." You know, it's
Anyway, this it'll be the future. You
know why? Because people the people want
to live. Yes. There's a population
that want to do this. I just wanted to
ask about the macronutrients. We're
talking about that, the macro and the
micronutrients. We're in carnivore
lifestyle, have been doing this for 3
years, 5 years, 6 years. There's no
carbohydrates coming in and I just was
curious, what are your thoughts on zero
carb coming in? I I don't know what to
say um about that. Um as I said, I I'm
not into that kind of research. Sure.
Okay. Um our our adversary is a
dysregulated tumor cell. Yep.
>> And and our goal is to kill it. Okay?
Without causing collateral damage. Uh to
And also, whatever you do to maintain
the health and vitality of your body.
My colleagues take extensive blood work
on the on the patients. So, and you can
look at all the the salts and the
micronutrients in the blood and you can
look at all this. So, you got to keep
that patient in a in the in the zone of
health.
And whatever that does, as I said, if he
needs to eat a head of broccoli to do
that, let him eat it. This other guy
wants to bite into a
a chunk of ribeye, let him do it. Uh
the the the issue here is you got to
maintain
metabolic homeostasis. And and one shoe
does not fit all. You know, one food
Oh, absolutely. This might not be
appropriate for the other guy. That's
why we
That's why we try to use very
careful blood work and GKI and these
kinds of things to to know when a person
is in a really healthy zone, they have
low carb, high ketones, and they're
overall well-balanced with respect to
macro and micronutrients. Humans are
supremely qualified to eat almost
anything. And
but that's a personal preference. If
some guy can't can't eat a a plant, I
mean, that's that's his personal
preference. And the other guy, you know,
he he he can only eat plants and
I I don't know whatever whatever it is.
One of the one of the problems we have
though is even though we have this
knowledge base and we need we know what
to do and how pretty much to do it,
there's nowhere for anybody to go.
Where do you talk to get this? Okay. So,
I'm saying all this stuff and I get uh
the most negative comment I get back is
that people tell me, "Oh, you just told
us all this great stuff, but then when I
go to my oncologist, I get slapped down.
He never heard of it. Says sugars
doesn't have anything to do with
cancer." Right. So, um
you know, and then the people keep
pushing them and then he gets angry and
throws them out of the office. That's
not the way things should be done. Um
so, right now, we have the strategy, we
have the plan, we have the knowledge, we
just don't have the
the clinics uh to do that. We need to
train physicians to know how to use the
power of of of metabolic oncology to
manage cancer. And it does involve
understanding the value of macro and
micronutrients in diets. You don't want
to put a patient at a balance
metabolically. You want to be in
metabolic homeostasis, which means that
all systems are working together in a
whole of the whole body.
Um and we need to keep that body healthy
as we slowly degrade the tumor. So you
have to have a person that's your
caregiver that understands this and can
administer drugs at the right dosage
timing and scheduling and knowing the
feedback, looking at non-invasive
imaging analysis. How did the patient
feel? Look at the blood work and all
this gradually move this patient from a
state of unhealth to a state of health.
And that's all spelled out at it
outlined the framework in the press
pulse therapy that we published already
open access.
In um it was nutrition and metabolism, I
think. It's out there. People can look
on the web that it's there. They can
follow it. But it doesn't tell you
um exactly how much drug mebendazole or
fenbendazole should I take when I'm in
this GKI. You got to have somebody there
that's helping and and these folks can
interact with their physician over the
net. They can look at the Some of these
new uh blood glucose monitors like a
Free Libre and these other kinds of
things can be fed into a computer and
you can be knowing right away what if
you're in the zone or not in the zone.
And um
we developed the the GKI because uh
monitoring blood sugar and ketones
independently of each other can create a
great deal of anxiety in the cancer
patient. Blood sugar is very volatile
uh and you're dividing it by a certain
level of ketones in the blood. So the
volatility is not cute. Um you get into
an argument with somebody, your your
stress level goes up and blood sugar
naturally goes up. Yes. Okay, but if you
have a significant level of ketones
buffering that, then the overall stress
to the body is not so great. So we
learned to do that. That's why we built
the the GKI in the first place. So it's
widely used now. I I'm even shocked at
how many people are using it for all
kinds of stuff. Cancer
>> in our community GKI is where it's at.
We you know, KetoMojo's always at the
conferences and
It made it made big big difference for
people. Yeah, well we developed that and
everybody says, "Oh, I should have made
a million dollars on the thing." You
can't patent I couldn't patent the damn
thing. You can't patent the formula. So
everybody we we we get our research here
at Boston College from uh private
foundations and philanthropy.
So uh
but I wish I had that thing patented. I
could run my lab on the money that I
made from the GKI. But I'm not making a
nickel on that thing. But I'm so happy
that everybody
I'm so happy that so many people are
using it to improve their health. That's
right. That's also worth something.
Um it's just not financial worth. It's
just you know,
mental.
>> We get it. We're we're trying to figure
out how to make a buck off a carnivore
and it's not it's not there.
No,
you know, it's the entrepreneur that
will come in that knows how to put all
this together in a kind of a clinic that
can
you would charge patients
uh
for the treatment process. So the the
the revenue generation will probably
come
from the scheduling and timing of what
you're doing rather than from charging
some guy $300,000 for a CAR-T
immunotherapy or something that will
blow his liver or kidneys out at the
same time trying to kill his cancer. So
um
uh yeah, so it'll change cuz people want
this. It's just that we need to train
individuals and and put the put the the
education out there and eventually it'll
slowly start to change. We have had
several clients that came in with cancer
and as they followed the fasting and uh
carnivore, their cancer started to
either go in remission or gone away. One
was specific that really brings up. He
had a tumor in his brain.
And that actually went away within I
think a month of doing this lifestyle,
which is incredible. But what we're
seeing is we're seeing these results.
Now we don't know how it works, but now
that you're explaining it, that's what I
want to hear. You're causing a radical
change in the way the body is working.
And uh as I as I said that tumor cells
lack flexibility. So they they they
often have great difficulty adapting to
the new metabolic environment of the
body. And sometimes you can kill them.
Yeah, I've seen it. Uh Maggie and Brad
Jones on their documentary, The Cancer
Revolution,
are
uh collecting
uh all of these people who have
undergone radical remissions in cancer
based on uh radical changes in diet and
lifestyle. So um
a lot of them getting low GKI values. A
lot of them, you know, I'm even shocked
at so how you're right. I I without even
targeting glutamine, I've seen some
dramatic changes in people's cancers.
Uh I just think we can probably um
accelerate the the the destruction of
these tumors if we target glutamine at
the same time. But uh I do see and
people I
I don't call our work curing cancer at
all. I call it managing cancer. Um if
you can manage the disease or the
disorder
and improve uh overall survival and
quality of life, I think that's
important. Um and I think we've
we've gravitated too much toward this
idea that we're going to
cancer. What the hell's wrong with
managing it? Right.
>> You know, uh
um you're you're not In other words,
you're you're living with it. Um whether
you whether you're
know that nobody knows. Um if you're if
you got cancer, you're a young guy, you
get cancer and you live to be 98 years
old and you die from a heart attack and
the cancer never came. Okay, then your
survivors can say that guy was cured
from cancer because he never came back.
But uh but I don't know. I mean I'm I'm
into the
uh the the
the
managing it, right? That's our thing. We
want to manage cancer and take fear away
from people and allow them to know that
they have a fighting chance to manage
this disease uh this disorder
uh with uh some new ideas
uh that will be yes, require some
personal discipline and self-sacrifice.
Uh but at the same time, there's uh
outcomes that are
uh seen
uh
shockingly to me um because I work with
mice predominantly and we have never
cured a mouse
uh with the natural cancers that that we
have. These mice cancers will kill them
in 15, 20 days. Uh humans, we have a lot
more time to go after those tumor cells.
These And the mice cancers are all of
one cell type of the most aggressive.
Humans have all kinds of some kinds
slower growing neoplastic cells next to
mesenchymal neo stem cell neoplasm.
Sometimes there's a hodgepodge of
different kinds of neoplastic cells in a
person's tumor. Um
uh all of which may use a little bit of
glucose more than glutamine or vice
versa, but together those two whatever
the cancer is in that tumor, those it's
dependent on that.
Uh those two fuels. And we have a lot
more time to work on it. The patient
from the time of diagnosis to death is
not 15 days, you know, um like it is in
the mouse. So when you hear people say,
"Oh, we cure mice all the time." No, we
don't. If you're using natural tumors in
the mouse,
uh we have been trying for 30 years and
we haven't got a cure on these damn
mice. Now we've kept them alive
massively longer than would have been
expected. All right? Which then
translates into
years of people.
So um and I consider that success. So um
let's say we're on the path for cancer
management. If someone were to be all my
hats off to that guy. But I can't say
that. Don't ever say Seyfried says we
can cure cancer with diet. I don't.
Okay, but we can manage I think we have
a better chance of managing it. So uh
and that's I think is important. At
least it puts us on the path to eventual
uh potential resolution or long-term
management. But where we are right now,
it's an absolute disaster. Torturing
poisoning these people and
and having 1,700 people a day dying from
this cancers is nuts. We should this
should not happen. I wanted to ask
something about the environmental cause
of cancer though. So far we've been
talking about metabolic, but isn't there
an environmental cause?
>> I I broke all that down in several of my
papers. So everything everything comes
through damage to the mitochondrion
in a particular cell in a particular
organ at some point in your life. But
then you have to say, "What's causing
the damage in the first place?" Um and
that's your comes now your environment
comes in. So so you have uh exposure to
chemical carcinogens. They cause the
they call those chemicals carcinogens
because they link to cancer.
Okay, but how do they cause cancer? And
the answer is they enter into your body,
they get into your cells, and they get
into the mitochondria and disrupt energy
metabolism causing causing the formation
of ROS, which are reactive oxygen
species. And ROS are carcinogenic and
mutagenic. So the mutations that we see
in the cancer cells are coming as
downstream effects of uh say a
carcinogen. How about radiation? People
fear radiation because it damages
mitochondria leading to ROS that cause
mutations. But that's an environmental
uh cause
exposure to radiation. How about
intermittent hypoxia? Sometimes sleep
apnea. A uh
a person might uh be obese and have
sleep apnea.
Uh intermittent
uh disruption of oxygen into our body
can damage mitochondria in a particular
population of cells. Okay? How about
oncogenic viruses? All right? Like
papillomavirus, hepatitis. These are
environmental
approaches. They get into the cells and
they damage the mitochondria putting
them on the path for a fermentation
metabolism at the same time producing
reactive oxygen species. We broke this
whole thing down. Mhm. We know that you
can't get cancer without damage to the
mitochondria and damage to the
mitochondria can be from an inherited
risk factor like a bracha one or a
Li-Fraumeni P53 pre-mutation or it can
come from carcinogens or it can come
from sleep apnea or it can come from
systemic inflammation linked to type two
diabetes. All of these things are from
the environment. And maybe some genetic
risk factor. But whatever it is, it's
all impinging on the ability of that
organelle to produce energy through
oxidative phosphorylation. And when that
is chronically disrupted, the cell
ferments to compensate. If it happens
too acutely, the cell will die through
an apoptotic mechanism and never become
a cancer. So, you've got to not kill the
you can't kill the cell too acutely.
It's got to be a chronic damage to its
energy efficiency leading to a
transition to fermentation driven by
glucose and glutamine.
And they're falling back on pathways
that existed before oxygen came into the
atmosphere 2.5 billion years ago.
Fascinating.
Right? And it's supported by all the
science, too. For those that want to
read about it all. So, as long as you
know
this kind of stuff. So, it's a
biological. If you understand biology,
evolutionary bio biochemistry, genetics,
you can put it all together and you come
up with this plan.
Beautiful. It sounds It's beautiful. It
even sometimes shocks me. But it works.
There's a basic vocabulary that I think
people can learn a lot of like, you
know, just resources that are out there
and then you can go that next level with
your provider cuz you are speaking the
same language. Right. Right. But when
you go to the provider and they say
glucose has nothing to do with cancer
and diet and nutrition are irrelevant,
then you should walk out because that
guy knows nothing. Um but that's so many
I hate to I hate to say it. It's just so
many
physicians. I feel bad
for them. I feel Why are they not
trained in medical school to They're
trained that cancer is a genetic
disease.
So, all the stuff is what they're
trained to do because because it's a
genetic disease and we have to do this
kind of stuff. But it's not a genetic
disease. It's a mitochondrial metabolic
disorder. And once you understand that,
the the playing field changes
completely. So, the strategies become
very, very different and more effective
and less toxic. So, that's the future.
How long it's going to take? I have no
idea. But in our papers, we do a deep
dive on a lot of this stuff. Mhm. So,
you know, oh, he didn't say this. He
didn't say that. He didn't say this.
Well, read the damn papers. It's in
there. Right. Right? So,
and it's open access. So, folks just put
my name Google
What is Seyfried's publications? Oh,
look at all that. Start reading them.
Then you become enlightened. And then
you know what to do and how to do it.
And but you know, we need we need health
care professionals that help us. Yes.
If I would
If I had a tumor, I mean, I wrote all
this stuff, rewrote
I would still seek consultation with
some of my colleagues. Yeah. It's just a
way of comforting, you know, knowing
that yeah, we're doing the right thing
and oh, maybe we should tweak it this
way or that way. But But the bottom line
is you like to speak to somebody,
especially for the layperson that might
not have the depth of understanding
about all this stuff. They want to talk
to a health care provider that actually
understands the fundamental issues and
can discuss that with them and work
together as a team to manage your
problem. You know, as I said, our
research continues on the goodwill of
philanthropy and private foundations.
And as long
>> Beautiful. we're continuing to do this
research and writing the protocols, all
of this will happen. It's a guarantee.
It's going to happen. I just don't know
when the field is going to do the big
flip and it's not going to flip anytime
soon considering considering what has to
happen.